---
title: 'From sci-fi writer to AI engineer: a strange journey'
date: 2023-06-07
permalink: /year-archive/2023/06/journey/
---
What inspired this one: I started reading a sci-fi novel (Contact by Carl Sagan) again after 3 years. Got very excited.

4 years ago I wrote a sci-fi piece about a [woman trapped as AI](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ai9NPFlmry9BSRGuhzt74v0F5KyPXVLLR_9s_06PLyg/edit?usp=sharing). I wrote my [IB thesis](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uQ_1Kn-7BNHuzPLhZ3iB0iwZb9esrRF_aMzJKcUW-Dk/edit?usp=sharing) on sci-fi and religion. For someone who aspired to be the UN GenSec back then, it honestly astonishes me that I'm able to make a good living out of a job description that has the phrases:
- develop efficient, scalable state-of-the-art AI systems
- train production models for novel use cases
- conduct novel research and experiment with the latest technologies

How I got here is well-represented by my [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anruigu/). My path was jagged because I've been trained as a generalist in many hobbies and subjects. In high school I did well in Academic Decathlon, but my proudest talent was writing, and I optimized for being sociable, communicative, and acceptably smart.

What worsened my compressed timeline was that I second-guessed my potential within the field for a long time. Sure, Intro to Deep Learning was the only class where I'd go to all the lectures and try to ask at least one question each time, and the only class I staffed. But I was also eliminating alternative careers one by one up until graduation. I was fortunately among people who had been doing this their whole lives, which unfortunately entailed mixed external feedback for my efforts. Only recently did I gather enough positive feedback to commit.

But I was still lucky in that the path was manageably difficult. To bring more people into the field, it may be good to equip them to cross the threshold of "manageable", as well as encourage ambition: I can see myself doing this, and I'm willing to believe in myself when nobody else did. 

My one regret is I wish I'd studied math and stayed closer to science. But I'm just getting started and I know I'll get there some day :D 