---
title: 'The Science Confession'
date: 2023-07-04
permalink: /posts/2023/07/science/
# url: /posts/journey
---
Today, for the first time in 6 years, I can feel that I have sweat out the eternity once and for all.

I regret that I lacked the agency to turn "false starts" in the natural sciences into something more. In 2012 I won a city-level prize for designing a train rainwater collection system. In 2014, another city-level prize for a botanical journal, which came with a fun weekend camp in nature. In 2016 I spent all my free time self-learning quantum physics, and loved taking a college course in astrophysics over summer. 
 
In 2017 I fell into a static eternity. I wanted to do scientific research badly, but my lack of agency prevented that. I often felt like a literal Pacman at a dead end chomping on the walls. The persona I developed afterwards, the advocate, the diplomat, the human condition observer, that was what the wall fed me. The wall also commanded me through various humans: "DUMB IT DOWN, you need to be considerate of the audience"; "be normal, be considerate of others' feelings"; "don't worry, you're still on the right track". 

<!-- 
It is utterly unfortunate that the one useful skill that I learned through these years is being nice and communicative.  -->

The weather in New York brought back the summer when I reveled at calculating the revolution of stars. I am intensely drawn to the headspace of the authors of the books I've read that tries to explain life, the universe, and everything. I am turning 22, and this is the beginning of infinity. 

The fact that [most people do this when they're very young](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/dahlin/bookshelf/hamming.html) adds urgency. Being international adds complexity. I will keep updates here.